what up man sir I didn't see nobody
mentioned you were in the hope you've
been waiting too long cool man
I mean as you know I'm now in France so
this is way easier than it would be if
it was back on the let me tell you
something
the more languages you learn there's
just one little part of your brain where
you store all those so I had a guy walk
up to me on the street yesterday he was
he was ethnically he looked lotion he
was wearing a t-shirt that identified
him as lost he was an old guy with his
granddaughter and I walked up to him and
spoke a few words and lotion and then he
started speaking to me in both lotion
and French and I'm answering in Chinese
you know so it's tough I mean obviously
both both German and French
you know concurrently yeah and so I'll
do like I don't know whatever they they
measure your progress and experience
points what it's like the first to some
minor hours if you were converted to a
university kind of thing right but I'll
do like 30 minutes of women switch over
to the other like there's a good gear in
my head that like literally kind of
quick so like like the words are just a
different sort of canvas and it's just
interesting hey maybe it's it maybe it's
a talent some people haven't some people
don't but you know when I first started
studying Chinese
I just been in Thailand for about two
weeks whatever it was that was when I
was in Thailand and durianrider started
the whole controversy with me so I've
been speaking Thai every day for just
whatever it was seven days ten days I
don't even know and then when I arrived
in China I was lapsing into both Thai
and Japanese while trying to learn
Chinese and just once in a long while I
accidentally say something in Cambodian
you know I'm a victim of language
education is basically so many layers to
it now for you
yeah and I mean it's it's funny too
because in the past like when I when I
learned lotion and thus I had fewer
languages relatively speaking I had a
feeling of how good I was in lotion once
it got up to higher levels and now I
don't have any feeling with Chinese at
all I so like my mom was in a restaurant
when we went and met my mom Beijing me
and my so I introduced my girlfriend
that my mom basically and you know I on
my mother's behalf I said some things to
the waitress that seemed completely
fluent then after I was like oh okay
I can do that now so that's where - the
feeling of of what your level is I think
I've lost that because of how many
languages are studying so obviously you
have objective ways to check your level
especially when you're living in China
everyday but yeah yeah yeah you've uh
you've only done European languages
though right so English French German
yeah well in university I did two years
of Arabic you mentioned that in the
email right right yeah I actually did
one semester of Mandarin my very first
semester I did a bunch of languages like
my first year first two years the Arabic
was a unfortunately very poorly taught I
hope they've been true that was like a
13 14 15 years ago by now it was just
after I grandpa I had I had a plan to go
and study in Yemen but that kind of
didn't fell apart
exciting times in Yemen let me tell you
back then it was little bit more people
but obviously now in the Civil War
yeah but even before the Civil War was
pretty pretty dicey yeah we don't have
been addressed in Yemen just because I'm
a political science major it's it's the
kind of place of it just because I like
disasters to be honest disasters weren't
gonna compose difference yeah or I guess
the three places that were considered to
have the purest Arabic were Syria Yemen
and Iraq and so I had considered and
there I think there was there were
articles written I guess back in the
mid-2000s about how oh there's so many
foreign students going to Syria and so
maybe I think by then by then I hadn't I
lost some interest in that anyway I
graduated from college at the time but
uh I
considered cereal but now like it's
business it's been destroyed pretty much
so war still ongoing yeah yeah anyway I
mean obviously very very emotional
Church so today back when September 11th
2001 happened
I had already locate when September 11
2001 happened I was still really
choosing between Asia and First Nations
languages but which I mean crea Jib way
Mohawk Inuit etc you know languages
native to Canada but I really had to
closed the door on Arabic and politics
of the Muslim world but not that long
before like had a year or maybe a year
earlier or less because I had taking
courses and I did study politics of the
the Muslim world which is fascinating
and even then before September 11th you
know it was very obvious that the fate
of the world hinged on some of these
conflicts and questions some of them
philosophical some them pragmatic and
what-have-you
I mean at that time look I did used to
this is really really shallow level but
I was looking at you know the use of
torture and Saudi Arabia and you know
interesting questions but yeah once
September look doesn't want to happen I
had to sit there and go wow if I had
chosen to go into Arabic or if I chose
now my whole life would be different
right I've been going down that you know
that path and that would those would be
the issues and you know and instead of
course when I went to a place like
Cambodia Cambodia was just knitting
itself together you know after the end
of the war and Laos was a few steps
ahead but that was truly post-war rather
than pre-war during the war so yeah very
different vibe very different
opportunities and dangerous yeah I grew
up like it happened like one week into
my university life and so that kind of
shaped how I wound up assembling in
Middle Eastern Studies major when I was
an undergrad so I actually like prior to
that like mid high school through the
end of high school I was really into
Buddhism and so when I was applying the
universities I was like oh let me
mention about you know considering
becoming it a scholar of things like you
study like Pali and Sanskrit
I was meeting a Zen Buddhism and Daoism
but um Mahayana strands but generally
but that didn't that didn't happen I
want to I mean didn't kind of I mean as
you get imagine how G begun to I've
known a couple of black guys mostly
african-american I think one was black
from Africa who did go into Buddhism
heavily and the racism everyday you know
sure you know and it's funny too because
I've spoken to some white and Asian
scholars of Buddhism and at first when I
mentioned racism in the Buddhism they're
just shocked they think it doesn't exist
you throw out just two or three examples
like oh yeah right right right right
but yeah it would have been it would
have been a huge huge issue in your life
on the other hand there always has been
the potential I mean you see how much
ground Islam gained within the United
States within black American
embarrassment wasn't even with you know
very dubious leadership you see oh
groups like the five percenter movements
Rastafarians ISM there were a lot of new
religious movements that gained ground
and have always felt like look I mean oh
no an ex Buddhist but I'm also next
scholar of Buddhism Buddhism really had
a lot of positive stuff to offer African
Americans in contrast to those other
movements like God rest of rest of
fairness um you know you can just say
some shallow stuff Buddhism has kung fu
I mean kung fu is appealing a lot but I
just say I mean I think like definitely
African Americans would be interested in
going to a Buddhist community center
that teachers come foo and then also has
this philosophy that there is no soul
and all this suffering you know I can I
can see that catching on it's as I say
you know raster fairness a missus
competition so some people are gonna
offer for each should you look back on
on Buddhism as the the road you didn't
travel a chapter as well as an echo into
a lot of the ways I see things I'm not a
blue so I'm just a nice basically main
thing I probably got out of it
especially coming into it as in my
teenage years is uh just some of the
meditation
techniques to have a calm mind have a
doctrine
my opponents basically yeah just
wondering I mean you know for me you
know how politically I approach veganism
but in the same way like within Buddhism
I felt like if this isn't linked to
humanitarian work or trying to make the
world better this is some positive goal
we're working towards all we're doing is
raising money so that this class of
Buddhist monks almost none of whom have
any legitimacy 99% of two of them can
live in you know kind of privilege not
less so that was a lot of what I saw
happening in Buddhism and you really
develop Lotus if you talk to them
privately that'll agree with you and get
different kind of reactions to that but
yeah obviously I'm not saying that old
religion or everything in life has to be
linked to humanitarian work or is it
well if it's not legit in terms of
humanitarian work and it's not legit in
terms of scholarship or something else
you know scholarship research real
Buddhist philosophy in that strict sense
then what are we doing here guys cuz
anybody can eat rice noodles anybody can
put on a robe and eat rice noodles and
this religion starts to look more and
more like Catholicism you know I mean so
yeah and we're cool um have you ever
she'd been to China okay well I mean you
know it's it's an open door to you even
certainly in contrast to both you know
Europe and Africa I mean so give an exam
but girlfriends here sitting next to me
which is off-camera you know there are
things I find inspiring about Chinese
culture just the way people work
together you know white people I've
talked about this with Asians white
people we can take Scotland as an
example Scot Scottish people tend to be
very tenacious tend to hate their own
parents if they work hard to please
their parents it tends to be with a
sense of resentment and competition like
a Scottish family or most white families
I knew in in Canada you had you know
different brothers within the family
hated each other and competed with each
other and that's really absent in
Chinese society and instead just the way
people work together of course they can
work together new terrible things and
they can work together to commit
murderer you know atrocities their
crimes against you may but you know
seeing the way people cooperate in
Chinese culture is a kind of long-term
low-level inspiration to me and you know
it's a contrast to what goes on even in
veganism as a movement so when I was
traveling in both Cuba and and Donna
West Africa right in terms of like it's
kind of not on Cuba there is the
ideology of socialism that pervades
everything but beyond that it's like a
kind of a communitarian spirit that goes
on it was like the whole country's a
family and because I'm black like they
everyone thought I was Cuban whereas
like they assumed like the European all
the white people have look another
tourist they will speak to me Spanish
person like oh this is Newton but um but
in any case yeah it's like um there's a
kind of unspoken and very easy sense in
which people can just kind of cooperate
on something simple when I was in Ghana
there was an armed robbery experienced
and when in the place I was staying with
I was staying at when we my mother and
my sister had come to visit me when I
was studying there the middle of my that
my time there and I guess they'd be you
know they'd follow people from the
airport to wherever the armed robbers at
the time and there a crowd well as thing
was a very safe city safer than New York
it's just that there would be people
probably with unloaded pistols and
shotguns and chase people from their
cell phones at the time I was a big
group but when that happened like like
nearly there after like the whole
community like kind of like almost Anna
you upped it into a march like and you
know that during that evening and the
other way we're looking for people
looking for who did it and everyone was
coming out and everyone was offering
support from just all over people I
hadn't known even just all of that
neighborhood so you know there's a
there's a easy sense of solidarity that
you find there too that she is absent in
the place like New York
something my father said my father is
now deceased which is interesting he
didn't say that many wise things but he
said that he felt that Japanese culture
was always really well-suited to
socialism and communism
whereas Chinese culture was inherently
very you know an interesting comment and
my father knew Chinese culture better
than Javanese culture but it is
definitely an interesting time in China
that way because they have those ideals
of communism and you still meet people
who believe in them and a lot of them
are tempted by Christianity the
temperature can convert or change for
the same reasons like they find the same
ideals within the Christian you know
grab-bag that they find within socialism
or communism and you know in a lot of
ways I mean Chinese culture is all about
wealth status money my money cut
anyone's throat to make money etc etc
and I'm sorry I'm sorry I mean I'm not
I'm really not stereotyping I live my
life in the minority of people who
reject those values by and large you
know people become university professors
and scholars and historians and care
about the stuff they're not the people
who live that way but nevertheless I
mean I've lived in Hong Kong as well as
Taiwan and you name these various
presidential ah but that is really
strong kind of like more capitalist than
capitalism you know what I mean and
money over everything so yeah but at the
same time there's this kind of ghost of
communism haunting everything and you
know I defy you anyone can do this you
can even search think within YouTube to
find these videos but look for videos
with the current leadership of the
Communist Party actually defines
communism like what is communism is
supposed to mean the answers are very
strange you know so it's question for
the future everyone who watched my
channel knows I'm not pro communist but
nevertheless I can sympathize with the
people who want to believe for me a
large part of my you know adolescence my
teenagers was overcoming the impulse to
want to believe
cool yeah you want it there speaking of
like political veganism I've gotten more
involved I guess in the past past half
year in some of the movements in New
York there was a lot that the City
Council just passed is called central
1233 to just basically banned animals in
circuses in the five boroughs
interesting that was a so I got involved
some phone banking for that before it
passed so there's there's some motion
and that wasn't had to keep me society
of the us near chapter that was until
the meeting whatever doing that the next
thing I think next big thing is probably
guessed carriage horses out of Central
Park which the the current mayor had
been trying eat yeah here campaigned
upon doing that when he before he was
inaugurated in 2014 but they couldn't
figure out something they the carriage
industry sort of fought back and they
have in Central Park there are cat horse
carriages mostly in the lower part of
the park posted in Midtown and then
they're also the pedal woody crawling
petal trolleys are right Mitchell
traditional human drawn carriages right
yeah and so there was back then there
was some kind of I sort of field that
they wanted to make that the rickshaw
and riders didn't accept about big they
could have northern half of the part but
they could have like the northern
quarter of the park and in the horse
carriages about the Senate but it didn't
make any sense and that didn't it fell
apart so that's probably the next big
thing that's gonna be happening without
liability on contain a campaign around
yeah just say about New York I think
that the main stroke will be visibility
really really really short anecdote
because I do want to hear what your
experience has been lately in your
activism I once put a question on the
internet and I got a ton of responses I
was when I was still with my ex-wife and
we were looking at where we should move
we're considering moving to various
cities in the u.s. I said well what
really is the best city
to be vegan and at first there were a
whole bunch of responses but the one
that really won as people kind of
thought about it the conversation went
on and response to this question was New
York City and they said look places like
Portland Oregon the veganism may be more
visible because the total population is
small but really New York City is where
the action is whether it's in terms of
activism or you know the potential but I
don't think anyone has ever tried to
even come with an estimate how many
vegans are in New York City it could be
five thousand it could be ten thousand
but when you think about it I mean you
know I'm not gonna on the basis of zero
information you're not gonna guess that
it's way more than that but any city if
you've got ten thousand people within a
subway ride of each other there's got to
be some some real potential there right
all right that's all I'd say sorry so
continue I mean New York City is eight
and a half million people the the
largest meetup groups of vegans north of
Madrid EMC in the past I've been doing
it for 18 years now but in the past one
year I'd say that the amount of vegan
type of events has multiplied like
fivefold this is like I think there's
been sort of a plateau for a while then
I'll sort of awesome that's kind of
exploded in terms of sort of the
interest in it there's like there's a
vegan block party in the Upper West Side
like about a month and a half ago
there's this veg fest year that there's
the green fest which largely affects
past basically there's gonna be the
first ever vegetarian food and drink
festival in Randall's Island which is
like all that like there's number brands
- like this island in the East River
where all the big festivals will
apparent like the big music festivals
Governors Ball things like what do you
call it so much SummerSlam things like
that so that's a big deal to have an
event like that
vegan speed-dating they brought that to
New York just in this inside of this
year in 2017 there's a lot of
interesting developments you know kind
of suggesting a rising interest of
it's interesting too I mean I also get
email from long-term vegans even it for
18 years I just got some messages today
from Aaron Janice Aaron Janice has a few
videos with over a million views so
she's as big as vegan vegan propaganda
on YouTube guess I'm not using
propaganda negative sense but I do think
her videos are Pro vegan probably that's
what they're or you call them
infotainment or whatever but you know
it's interesting because I mean some
people get lazy some people get
complacent but most of the people I hear
from you know is that imp there's that
insatiable desire to do more it's not
enough you know and whether it's the
sense of the change they were looking
for in the world is not happening or the
friends they wanted to have where they
thought you know where they thought the
movement would take them in terms of
their social circle or whatever it is
yeah it's interesting I mean I guess
what I'm trying to say is inertia you
know it becomes an inspiration for
people I think who are who are vegan
long term and then they're looking
around for you know new hammers and new
nails new tools and new methods have you
been involved with any organizations the
capital o have you been involved with
you're right action everywhere we're
just talking about recently or any other
any other you know vegan or peda for
that matter any other vegan organization
that has uh has an acronym no well not
well I think the most I've done for an
organization well like right now the
answer's no basically but I've worked
with B main society I've worked with the
I volunteered for the both weekends of
the New York City vegetarian food
festival so I worked with old full
organizers and everything that they were
doing that was just this past May so I
mean like I'm looking for more things
that been aligned with sort of how I
what do I think is practical you think
about do you think about starting your
own your own group or your own movement
I mean it's a time commitment like like
a Harlem uptown because I had to like
draft that yeah I thought about that you
know something like in this in this part
of Manhattan that might that might be in
the works
you know I had people writing to me that
they were so disappointed me after I
made a video that I think it's a really
positive video it's my manifesto video
so I have a playlist for it I have a
video what does it call my vegan
manifesto do you know the title the
video okay I even forgot to tell the
video now but that video I had
translated into nine languages but it's
interesting one of the responses I got
to that video from many people was well
it was in a sense both positive and
negative people wrote in to me and they
were disappointed because they thought
after I made that video like the next
day I was gonna incorporate a foundation
and start a vegan community like in the
most literal sense of like bricks and
mortar like buildings with people living
in the minute you know I mean because
that video I'm stating my kind of long
term aspirations and I mean that's it's
touching in a sense right like they saw
that video one thought like within weeks
or something there be something rolling
it's like I I don't even know who is I
mean maybe it's worth reflecting I mean
there probably are some famous
high-profile vegans who could make that
happen
whether Hollywood stars or millionaires
or whatever yeah that's for sure yeah so
this the title the video is actually on
community the playlist says on community
of being a manifesto and it's been
traveling a bush Ramanujan but yeah that
still is my manifesto that still is
saying you know what I want to say we've
been here looking at we were talking
about daycare we're talking what
retirement homes a lot because we're
here meeting family my daughter's here
max wife is here my ex-wife is in a
situation here in France where the
government forces my child to eat meat
at school legally so every single vegan
in France has a conflict with the school
board and then one more but legally it's
required for your children to eat meat
at lunch in front so what you know what
you gonna do in that scenario um so you
know the park when you think about okay
vegan schools vegan day care cuz
daycares a huge problem right if you
could kids being handed you know non
vegan food they don't know the
difference to the two young or whatever
or even if they do know the difference
but you expect a three-year-old or
something to stand up on point of
principle and refuse to eat ice cream
it's asking a lot from a three-year-old
or a toddler or something right and yeah
also you know talking about retirement
homes in old age because we're talking
about relatives who are in that category
and so on
so
all that stuff I said in that video it
still haunts me it's not my objective
you know what what do you think I'm
gonna do you know I'm you know and when
I made that video was unemployed now I
earn what like three hundred dollars a
month yeah forget us that's what it is
you know to me living in living in China
so I have a beautiful wonderful life in
so many ways but it's touching people
really thought that just because I
expressed the initiative and the vision
that I could make this happen they were
disappointed that hadn't already made it
happen but I mean in your case you're 18
years in I sorry I don't know your age
but you look pretty young and well
preserved you've probably got another 30
years minimum
looking at mean you know that's that's
we all go to thank I was I was talking
to a vegan activist here vegan activist
who supports me on patreon and she was
so she's a couple years younger than I
think she said she was 32 and she was
talking about her plans for when she's
55 life is long well right and that's
just the suffocating reality of you know
having responsibilities with
responsibilities to your kids or your
grandparents or to your discipline your
job whatever it is man it will a great
great mu on it's past 11:00 p.m. now so
I gotta I gotta hit the sack hearing
your voice for the first time I know
you've been a long time you know
supporter and and view or what have you
and I say this to a lot of people but I
do mean it
I hope I still know you five years from
now future of the movement is long I
don't know what you're gonna be doing I
mean you know obviously everyone ends up
in New York sooner or later you know
it's um at some point I'm gonna set foot
in New York City but one way or another
I hope I hope we still know each other
even if there's no possibility of really
cooperating does not maybe in Canada or
China or what have you you know there
are talent is scarce never forget and
within veganism you know it's fractious
and fragmentary and so many people are
eccentrics are verging on you insane
anyone I meet is basically talented
educated self discipline I view you as a
precious resource okay
great talk you have a good night